1992|10747|On a daily basis, many are dying a slow and painful death. It is regrettable that the response of the international community was painfully slow at the beginning of the tragedy. However, there were, and there continue to be, men and women whose devotion to humanitarian service and reverence for human life are unparalleled in their quality and dimension. The International Red Cross was there when no one else was. Its dedication to alleviating human suffering is truly extraordinary. The great son of a Lutheran pastor and 1952 Nobel Peace Prize laureate. Dr. Albert Schweitzer, once said "There is no higher religion than human service. To work for the common good is the greatest creed." The Red Cross deserves our gratitude and commendation. In equal measure, we commend the efforts of the Secretary-General in securing the agreement and approbation of the parties to the conflict, in the face of immense difficulties, so that humanitarian assistance could reach the suffering people. We also welcome the decision of the Security Council to deploy an additional 3,000 observers in Somalia. In South Africa, at the time of their suspension three difficult months ago, the negotiations conducted within the framework of the Convention for a Democratic South Africa (CODESA) had undeniably achieved positive results. A substantial degree of consensus had been achieved within a relatively short time, considering that less than two years ago the apartheid edifice was still very much intact, barely shaken, and prospects for change in South Africa were as bleak as they could be.
1999|10426|This transformation serves as a monument erected to inform the international community that Africa has said "No" to the institutionalization of the route map from barracks to the State House, which hitherto the military has traversed with impunity. Further, the return to peace and democracy in Liberia and Sierra Leone bears ample testimony to Africa’s renewed quest for democracy, peace and stability. It is, therefore, our fervent hope that the implementation of these peace agreements will lead to the restoration of normality in the region. In the same spirit, the Southern African Development Community (SADC) alliance intervened in the Democratic Republic of the Congo to uphold one of the most fundamental tenets of the United Nations Charter: respect for the principle of sovereignty and territorial integrity. Aggression, under whatever pretext, should be condemned and opposed by the United Nations. We are, therefore, encouraged by the eventual participation of the rebels in the peace process. We wish to register our most sincere gratitude to His Excellency President Chiluba of Zambia for his untiring efforts that succeeded in bringing the rebels on board this peace process. It must be emphasized, though, that the success or failure of a peacekeeping mission to the Democratic Republic of the Congo will be determined by the availability of both human and material resources. We are, however, worried that an inadequately funded Democratic Republic of the Congo peacekeeping operation would be a clear manifestation of Africa’s increasing marginalization in the new world order.
1994|8211|UNPROFOR can operate only if it is able to keep lines open to all the parties to the fighting. It could not continue if leading members of the United Nations were rearming one side; UNPROFOR would then be identified as a party to the war. It is not mandated or equipped for that purpose. Our Secretary-General has endorsed that view, and the Commander of United Nations forces in Bosnia has rightly said "We have not come here to fight a war from inside white painted vehicles". So I welcome the decision of which we heard yesterday from the Bosnian President, the decision to accept that now is not the moment to lift the arms embargo. And that Bosnian decision allows UNPROFOR to continue its mission. We have said before that if the Bosnian Serbs do not join the peace process and agree the map presented by the Contact Group, then our present approach may become exhausted. Lifting the arms embargo may become unavoidable, as we said at Geneva in July, and in those circumstances UNPROFOR would have to withdraw. But it would not be a good policy. Indeed, it would be a policy of despair, a policy that, as in Shakespeare’s King Lear, "Bids the wind blow the earth into the sea, "... "That things might change or cease". (King Lear, Act III, scene i, l. 5) A real solution to the conflict, as always, lies with those who are doing the fighting. We from outside must continue to show all the parties that the way forward is political agreement and not more military action. There is a settlement plan, the settlement plan of the Contact Group, on the table.
